tux64-boot is a Linux bootloader for the Nintendo 64.  It compiles binary code
files required for different stages of the bootloader.  The binary files are
intended to be used with tux64-mkrom to create a Nintendo 64 ROM image which can
boot and run Linux.

The following files are created:

   * stage0.bin - The code to run in place of the IPL3.  It performs basic
                  hardware initialization, verifies the checksum of the stage-1
                  bootloader, then start the stage-1 bootloader.

   * stage0.bin.cic - Data placed at the end of RSP DMEM to force the CIC
                      checksum to match the CIC-6102's IPL3 checksum.  This is
                      required in order to boot on real hardware.

   * stage0.sym - Debug symbols for the stage-0 bootloader.

   * stage1.bin - The main bootloader binary.  This is what most users will
                  interact with and contains most of the bootloader code.
                  It renders a framebuffer console to the screen to visually
                  display boot status information.  If there is enough memory
                  with itself loaded, it will also load the kernel, initramfs,
                  and command-line.  If not, it will instead load and start the
                  stage-2 bootloader.

   * stage1.bin.bss - A text file which contains the length of the stage-1's
                      .bss section, in bytes.  If the file is empty, then there
                      is no .bss data.

   * stage1.sym - Debug symbols for the stage-1 bootloader.

   * stage2.bin - The code used to free the stage-1 bootloader from memory,
                  allowing all of RDRAM to be allocated to the kernel,
                  initramfs, and command-line.  This will be responsible for
                  loading the above items into memory and starting the kernel
                  if stage-1 unable to.

   * stage2.sym - Debug symbols for the stage-2 bootloader.

In order to build this, you will need a cross-compiler which can target
mips64-elf.  To accomplish this, please refer to the installation instructions
for Tux64.

For developers and the curious reader, here is the boot process from console
power-on to kernel entry:

   1: Power ON/Reset - hardware powers on and performs their own specific basic
                       initialization, CPU program counter is set to
                       0xbfc00000, which maps to the start of PIF ROM, which
                       contains the IPL1 and IPL2.  The CPU now begins executing
                       the IPL1 directly from PIF ROM.

   2: IPL1 - this essentially does little more than set some basic hardware
             registers to a consistent state and load the IPL2 from PIF ROM into
             RSP IMEM.  This is done because executing directly from PIF ROM is
             extremely slow.  Once this finishes, the CPU jumps to RSP IMEM and
             executues the IPL2.

   3: IPL2 - this initializes the PI cartridge timings to their slowest values
             to allow reading the cartridge ROM header, which contains the
             fastest PI cartridge timings supported by the cartridge ROM.

             next, the 4096 bytes of cartridge ROM are copied into RSP DMEM.
             this contains the full ROM header as well as the IPL3.  for
             tux64-boot, we instead store the stage-0 bootloader where the IPL3
             should be.

             however, before the IPL2 jumps to RSP DMEM, it uses the CIC to
             compute and verify the checksum of the IPL3.  if it doesn't match
             the checksum expected by the cartridge's CIC, it will halt the main
             CPU, effectively halting the boot process.  this means we must add
             data to stage-0 to force the checksum to match the CIC,
             specifically the CIC-6102.  this is the reason for stage0.bin.cic.

             once the checksum verification passes, the IPL2 jumps to
             RSP DMEM + 64, which is the start of the IPL3, or in this case, the
             stage-0 bootloader.

   4: stage-0 bootloader - this first does basic hardware initialization, which
                           includes initializing RDRAM, initializing the CPU
                           caches, and initializing COP0 registers.  Once
                           complete, the bootloader header is loaded into RDRAM.
                           A checksum is computed on the bootloader header to
                           protect against corruption.  Once complete, the
                           stage-1 bootloader is loaded into RDRAM, where it
                           has its checksum computed and verified.  At this
                           point, we are ready to execute the stage-1
                           bootloader.  We send the boot termination command to
                           the PIF, initialize a new stack at the start of
                           RDRAM, and jump to the stage-1 start address.  We
                           want to move out of RSP DMEM as it's slower to
                           execute compared to RDRAM since we can't use cached
                           accesses for RSP memory.  We only initialize enough
                           hardware to get a consistent state and load stage-1
                           into RDRAM.

   5: stage-1 bootloader - this provides all of the interactive components of
                           the bootloader.  on-screen logging is performed to
                           display the boot process.  it will check for total
                           system memory and available system memory, that is
                           memory which isn't used by the stage-1 bootloader.
                           if there is not enough total system memory, it will
                           error out.  if there is enough total system memory
                           but not enough available memory, it will instead
                           load the stage-2 bootloader and have it perform the
                           above.

   6: stage-2 bootloader - this does the same loading as stage-1, but without
                           any of the interactive components.  it executes from
                           RSP IMEM with a small stack and data segment in
                           RDRAM.  this frees up almost all of RDRAM for the
                           boot files, which can allow booting in some cases
                           where it would otherwise be impossible with stage-1
                           loaded.

